# CITS3403-Project

An application to track your media consumption habits.

The idea is, at the end of the day, the user can log (approximately) the time spend on certain media `titles` (i.e. we are not tracking your youtube consumption or how long you spent watching the news).

To log an activity, click on the `new activity` button on the dashboard and select a `media type`, an optional `media subtype`, and input a `media name`. Optionally, you can set a `start date` for that activity if you forgot to log the activity at an earlier date. The activity will now appear on the dashboard. To log time spent on that title, click on the `add entry` button and fill in the time spent (in minutes) on that activity. You can optionally set a date if you wish to log an entry for a different date. Finally, when you finish an activity, click on the `end activity` button to finish the activity. Here, you can optionally log a rating and comment/review on that activity (for your personal record or if you share your data with another user). Don't worry, if you accidentally end an activity or wish to take a break from that activity, you can always reopen the activity from the `Activities` page. 

The application database has been populated with a couple of users users e.g. `aoi`, `Neko`, `nekopara`, `giraffe_boi`, all with the same password `Password123#`. Only users `aoi` and `Neko` have Activity and Entry data. All other users exist only for demonstrating the sharing data view.

### **NOTE: test data includes activities/entries up to 19/05/2025 (date of presentation). Some stats in the analysis page calculate based on the current date (e.g. total duration in the past week), so if left for too long, these stats will not show any data.**

## Running the Application

To run the web application, navigate to the project root and install the required dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

To avoid conflicts with your existing python environment, you may create a virtual environment before installing dependencies:
```
python -m venv <virtual-environment-path>
source <virtual-environment-path>/bin/activate
```

This application requires sqlite3 to run. If you do not have sqlite3 installed, you can install via:
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install sqlite3
```

Finally, to run the application, simply use `flask run`:
```
flask run
```
Altneratively, you can run the application using the `main file`:
```
python3 app.py
```

To run the selenium unit tests, chromium/chromedriver needs to be installed on your machine. To install:
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install chromedriver
```
You may need to configure the `test_selenium.py` with the location of your chromedriver. On ubuntu/linux, this location is usually at `usr/bin/chromedriver` after running the above installation. This is also the default location set in `test_selenium.py`.

On Mac/Windows, you can directly download the chromedriver from [chrome](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/chromedriver/downloads). The chromedriver will be located in the base directory of the downloaded folder.

To run the unit tests and selenium tests:
```
python3 -m unittest tests/test_app.py
python3 -m unittest tests/test_selenium.py
```

## Acknowledgements

Various AI/LLMs (chatgpt, copilot etc.) were used as `tools` when creating this application. Almost every file in this project contains some form of code generated by AI. AI has been used to generate HTML pages, help debug code and create the basis of many of the routes in this project.

Use of wow.js has been used in the project for animations. See LICENSE for acknowledgements.
